# Manfest-driven Image Building
The *[imaginator](../cmd/imaginator/README.md)* may be used to build complete
images using *image manifsts* which describe the contents of images.

## Image Building Concepts
*Image streams* are a progression of images (i.e. v0, v1, v2 and so on) over
time. Every *image stream* has an associated *image manifest* which describes
the components desired. In general, *image manifests* are stored in a Git
repository.

Images are built by taking a *SourceImage*, adding files and packages and
running scripts at various stages during the process. Any image that is built by
the *[imaginator](../cmd/imaginator/README.md)* can be used as the *SourceImage*
for another image, leading to a tree of images. The root of the tree is a
*bootstrap* image which is generated by the
*[imaginator](../cmd/imaginator/README.md)*. These *bootstrap* images are built
using vendor-supplied scripts such as `debootstrap` and `yumbootstrap`.

If a *SourceImage* is missing (or too old (default: 1 hour)), it is
automatically built. In a typical configuration, some commonly used images are
automatically and periodically rebuilt. This supports fast building of
application images which automatically have the latest security patches from the
OS vendor.

Built images are stored in an *[imageserver](../cmd/imageserver/README.md)*
which de-duplicates common files and efficiently replicates the data to multiple
regions if desired. Machines may be live-patched with these images using the
*[dominator](../cmd/dominator/README.md)*, or tools such as the
*[ami-publisher](http://bit.ly/2BgUW1C)* may be used to publish image artefacts
across multiple AWS accounts and regions in a couple of minutes to create new
virtual machines.

## Manifest Components
The image manifest has multiple components. These are processed and combined in
the following order to build the image contents.

### `manifest` file
This is a required file, containing a JSON encoded object with the following
fields:
- `SourceImage` (required): the name of the image stream that will be used as
                            the starting basis for the image to be built. The
			    most recent image in the specified stream will be
			    used as the base
- `FilterLines` (optional): an array of regular expressions matching files which
                            should not be included in the image

Other fields may be present and they will be ignored by the
*[imaginator](../cmd/imaginator/README.md)*. This is typically used to store
other image metadata such as the tags to apply when creating an AMI (Amazon
Machine Image).

### `files` directory tree
If present, any files and symbolic links in this directory tree will be
copied verbatim into the image (prior to installing packages), preserving the
directory structure.

### `pre-install-scripts` directory
An optional directory containing scripts to run prior to installing packages.
These are processed in lexical order. The scripts are run in a contained
environment where the root directory is the root directory of the image being
built.

### `package-list` file
An optional file containing a newline-separated list of packages to install. The
contents of the `files` directory tree should contain any package repositories.

### `post-install-files` directory tree
If present, any files and symbolic links in this directory tree will be
copied verbatim into the image, preserving the directory structure.

### `scripts` directory
An optional directory containing scripts to run. These are processed in lexical
order. The scripts are run in a contained environment where the root directory
is the root directory of the image being built.

### `post-scripts-files` directory tree
If present, any files and symbolic links in this directory tree will be
copied verbatim into the image (after the `scripts` are run), preserving the
directory structure.

### `computed-files` file
An optional file listing the *computed files*. This is relevant only for images
which will be lived patched onto machines with the
*[dominator](../cmd/dominator/README.md)*. Each line of the file must contain
the following fields:
- `Filename`: the name of the file in the image
- `Source`: the network address of the *file generator* that will provide the
            file data

An alternative format file `computed-files.json` is supported, where the format
is JSON data which must contain an array of objects with the above fields.

### `computed-files.add` file
This is similar to the `computed-files` file, except that the list of computed
files are *added* to the list of computed files in the *SourceImage*, thus
inheriting and (if not empty) extending the list of computed files. This must
not be present if the `computed-files` file is present.

An alternative format file `computed-files.add.json` is supported, which must
contain JSON data.

### `filter` file
An optional file containing a newline-separated list of regular expressions
matching files which should not be updated on target machines. This is relevant
only for images which will be lived patched onto machines with the
*[dominator](../cmd/dominator/README.md)*. This must not be present if the
`filter.add` file is present.

### `filter.add` file
This is similar to the `filter` file, except that the filter expressions are
*added* to the filter of the *SourceImage*, thus inheriting and (if not empty)
extending the filter. This must not be present if the `filter` file is present.

### `triggers` file
An optional JSON encoded file listing the *triggers* (services which should be
restarted when certain files change when live patching machines). This is
relevant only for images which will be lived patched onto machines with the
*[dominator](../cmd/dominator/README.md)*. The JSON data must contain an array
of objects with the following fields:
- `MatchLines`: an array of regular expressions
- `Service`: the service to restart if a file is changed which matches one of
  	     the regular expressions
- `DoReboot`: if true, reboot the machine after restarting all services that
              require restarting, provided those restarts succeed
- `HighImpact`: if true, restarting the service will have a high impact on the
  		machine (i.e. a reboot)

This must not be present if the `triggers.add` file is present.

### `triggers.add` file
This is similar to the `triggers` file, except that the triggers are *added*
(merged) to the triggers of the *SourceImage*, thus inheriting and (if not
`[]`) extending the triggers. This must not be present if the `triggers` file is
present.

### `tests` directory
An optional directory containing test scripts to run. These are copied into the
`/tests` directory tree in the image, merging with tests from the *SourceImage*.
The tests are run concurrently after the image content is built. If any test
fails or exceeds the 10 second timeout, the image is not uploaded and the build
fails. The scripts are run in a contained environment where the root directory
is the root directory of the image that was built.
